Connect the D.O.T.S. by Obiora Embry

Web version with resources available @

http://utgift.freehostia.com/connect_dots.pl


We the people, the inhabitants of the United States and the Earth, have a responsibility to solve the problems that we helped to create when we allowed the visual and aural propaganda to influence our daily thoughts and decisions because we were blinded and disillusioned by greed, fear, ignorance, arrogance, and a lack of respect for the Earth (that we inherited from our ancestors and will pass on after we expire).

We owe it to the unborn and yet to be thought of, to rediscover what it means to be “human,” responsible, to work together and solve problems, to distinguish fact from fiction, to recognize that not everyone in this country has the same “standard of living,” and that all change must begin with ourselves.

We must demand that automobile manufacturers quit playing “brand new” when it comes to non–gasoline powered vehicles. Henry Ford's first Model T ran on ethanol produced from industrial hemp and everything except for the steel frame was plant-based. The Model T was built using a combination of flax, wheat, industrial hemp, spruce pulp, and soy beans. Rudolph Diesel, the “inventor” of the diesel engine worked on the idea of a solar engine between 1880 and 1890. In 1900, he unveiled a diesel engine that ran on peanut oil at the World's Fair Exposition in Paris, France. The research, automobiles, and ideas of Ford, Diesel, and countless others should already be known to automobile manufacturers. However, for us to understand why this “technology” has been stifled for so long, we must first understand the continuum that began after Sir Percy Cox and others carved up the Ottoman Empire and created the “Middle East” after World War I.

The new boundaries created within the Ottoman Empire were designed to guarantee conflict and keep the region divided so oil concessions and royalties would be easier to negotiate. The instability created within the “Middle East” combined with a petroleum shortage fear in the 1920's, the Red Line Agreement of 1928, and corporations defining policy in Washington, D.C. helped to spiral a domino effect nationally and internationally that still exists today. [The Red Line Agreement gave the Near East Development Corporation (consortium of 5 large United States petroleum companies) 23.75% of the Turkish Petroleum Company’s shares in the new British mandate, Iraq, and joint development of other petroleum fields within the Red Line.]

This continuum has coexisted with and has been a primary cause of the following:

   tax on marihuana—Marihuana Tax Act, which made it easier for industrial hemp and marihuana to be prohibited nationally,

   an increase in the usage of petrochemicals and synthetics in the fiber and food industries,

   resurgence of the Ku Klux Klan and increased racial tension in the United States towards Mexicans and Blacks through the national propaganda created to demonize marihuana,

   an increase in domestic policies dictated by corporations rather than US (i.e., water fluoridation and a national prohibition on industrial hemp and marihuana),

   petroleum fueled automobiles, plant–based products almost eliminated as competition in the “paper,” paint, plastics, textile, and automotive industries,

   greater reliance on petroleum and its derivatives,

   less fuel efficient automobiles and collusion between petroleum and automobile companies,

   discrete government, banking, business, and private partnerships with countries that have natural resources (i.e., Panama, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Afghanistan, etc.),

   greater dependence on “state–sponsored terrorism” and war to control and gain access to the world's natural resources,

   increase in air, water, and land pollution by corporate “America”,

   and the rise of the corporament (government + corporations) that we must dismantle, if we the people should continue to be significant.

Furthermore, we must demand that companies clean up their act. They must clean up the bodies of water they have polluted, which can be accomplished through the use of phytoremediation and/or bioremediation. Companies must reduce the inflated paychecks of upper management. In addition they need to redesign their processes, products, and infrastructure using the principles of Nature as a guide, and eliminate toxic by-products, emissions, pieces, and parts from their manufactured goods. And lastly, all businesses must take their money out of the politicians' pockets at the town/city/county, state, and federal levels.

We the people must demand that the acts and laws that have been passed due to flimsy and circumstantial evidence, fear, and ignorance like the Marihuana Tax Act, Controlled Substances ACT, Patriot ACT, and RAVE ACT be repealed.

We must also change the view that we have of Mother Earth, our neighbors, the businesses that we patronize, our employers, our lifestyles, and our mindsets. We must overcome our ignorance, fear, greed, and lack of understanding of the world in which we live, and change the source(s) that we use to obtain our news. Ultimately, we must remove the control that the corporament has on our daily lives.